                                                               JAVA INTERVIEW QUESTIONS:
                                                               -------------------------

PROGRAMS:
---------

1.write a program to convert the given string into integer without using parseInt(String str)method?

2.what is string pool?what is use of string pool concept in java ?what is difference between creating string object using new operator and without new operator?
   how to convert string heap object into pooled object?
3.write a program for spillting string into multiple tokens without using spilt()method?
   
   Ex:String str=javaspringjava;
         public String[] mySpilit(String s,char delimeter){
         
            //write your own spilit logic//
         }
4.Identify the duplicates elements in array and print it?

5.fibonacci series using recursive?

6.write a program to find numbers in given string and add them?
    String ss=java9j3j2i88

   output=9+3+8+8+2=30

7.how to sort employes list based on names in desending order?

8.what is cyclicbarrier and countdownlatch in java explain?

9.write a program to find names who have same salary?

10.write a program to find a second highest element and lowest element in given array?

11.write a bubble sort program?

12.write a program to identify duplicate elements and print them as desending order?
  
ex:String[] str={hari,balaji,hari,hari,ravi,ravi};

output:hari---->3
       ravi----->2
      balaji----->1

13.write a program to find and display word with occurance in a given file?

14.in your project where you have used threads and collections ?give me the complete description?

15.write a program to display the unique objects and eliminate the duplicates?

      Ex:Employee class


        Employee has 5 objects in that objects 2 have same state then we have to store one object and displays the 4 objects data.


16.write a singleton program in all possiblities?

17.write a own linkedlist program?

18.write a palindrome program  using recursive algorthim?

19.what is contract between equals and hashcode and give me the program?

20.write a deadlock program?




CORE JAVA QUESTIONS:
--------------------

1.what is compile and runtime polymorphism?

2.explain the hashing machanism?

3.what is difference between vector and arraylist?

4.what is difference between arraylist and linkedlist?

5.what is the sorted collection classes in java?

6.what is difference betwwen hashmap and hashtable?

7.what is difference between comparator and comparable?

8.what is difference between enumerator,iterator,listiterator?

9.what is difference between collection and collections in java?

10.what is difference between collection and map?

11.what would happen if you add duplicate element in set and hashmap(key) ?

12.what is difference between concurrenthashmap and hashtable?

13.what is difference between failfast and failsafe in java?

14.how many ways we can create the threads in java?

15.explain the producerconsumer problem in java?

16.how many ways we can make our data as thread safe?

17.difference between thread and process?

18.what is the use of threadlocal and volatile in java?

19.thread life cycle?

20.what is other way of thread communication without using wait,notify,notifyall?

21.what is the difference betwwen sleep and join,yield?

22.draw the Exception hireracy ?

23.what is difference between Exception and error?

24.what is the order of catch blocks if u have multiple catch blocks?

25.what happend if u define catch blocks in super,subclass order?

26.what is Exception propogation?

27.what happend if you get exception means give me the internal process?

28.how can u prevent outofmemoryexception ?

29.what is difference between throws and throw keyword in java?

30.how to create custiomized exceptions in java?

31.what happend if u get the exception in try block give the flow?

32.what is difference between string,stringbuffer,stringbuilder?

33.what is difference between immutable and final object?

34.how can u create the immutable object ?what is the use of immutable object?

35.what is the purpose of jvm?

36.what is the constructor chaining?

37.what is serilization in java?

38.what is difference between abstract class and interface?

39.how many ways to crate objects in java?

40. what is difference between java1.5,1.6.1.7,1.8?

41.what is the executor framework in java ?what is the purpose?




SERVLETS&JSP :
--------------

1.what is difference between forward ,include and sendredirect methods?

2.what is difference between servletconfig and servletcontext?

3.what do mean by servlet chaining?

4.how can we make our request as stateful?

5.what is difference between httpservlet and genericservlet?

6.what do mean by loadonstartup?

7.servlet lifecycle?

8.what is difference between page and pagecontext?

9.how many implict objects are there in jsp?

10.when will be the destroy method executed?



SPRING:
-------

1.what is spring and why u go for spring?

2.what is ioc?

3.what is difference between setter and constructor injection?

4.what is autowiring?

5.spring lifecycle?

6.Spring AOP(frequently they asked spring AOP questions)?

7.spring mvc flow?

8.how many scopes in spring and describe?

9.how many modules are there in spring?


HIBERNATE:
----------

1.how many states in hibernate?

2.what is difference between get and load methods?

3.what is difference between session and sessionfactory in java?

4.one2one,one2many,many2one,many2many in hibernate?

5.cache in hibernate?

6.inherinetance in hibernate?

7.what is difference between hql,named sql,creteria and native sql?

8.what is difference between lazyloading and eagerloading in hibernate?

9.what is cascadestyles in hibernate and how many cascade types and explain?

10.what is difference between opensession and getcurrentsession methods in hibernate?


WEBSERVICE AND PROJECT MANAGER QUESTIONS:
-----------------------------------------
1.Explain the internal process when request come to webservice?

2.Explain the message exchanging formats ?

3.which mef(message exchanging formats) r u using in your project ?
  
  if you say document wrapped they are asking why you are using that one and why u not using remaining one's.

4.which java version r u using?

5.most of times they asking versions of technologies what u r put in your resume?

6.which java binding r u using?

      if you say jax-b why you using jax-b explain?

7.Explain the project architecture?

8.what is your daily activities in your company?

9.which ticketing tool r u used in your roject?

10.which methodoly r u following in your company?

11.how do you get the code or who will assign the code?

12.how the testers assign the bugs to you?

13.how do you manage the session in web service?

14.how do you authenticate the user in webservice?which security model r u following in your project explain?

15.In which server you have stored the username and password of user?
 
     iam saying eldope servers.so they are asking y u using that one explain?

16.how do u integrate the spring with webservice?

17.how u applied the transaction in your project?

18.what is difference between sax and dom?

19.which version controling r u used in your project?

20.how can u gather the requirements?

21.why u using spring in your project?

22.write the web.xml in your project?

23.why u configure lister in web.xml ?what is the use?

24.what is the wsdl?how many elements r there in wsdl?

25.what is the endpoint in webservice?how many endpoints r there in webservice?which one r u using in project ?why using this is only?

26.difference between restful and soap webservices?

27.how many approach r u there to develop the webservice?which one r u following?

   if u say contractfirst why r u using contractfirst approach and what benifits r u getting if are using contractfirst?

28.other than coding what u did in your project?

29.how do u test your code?

30.what is difference functional testing and integration testing?

31.how the code move from development env to production env?

32.write the test code for authenticate the user by using junit?

33.how do u chech code quality in you project?which tool are using ?
